docs: add upgrade to community topic (#21567)
grafana/loki: docs/sources/setup/upgrade/upgrade-to-community/_index.md

---
title: Upgrade from the Loki Helm chart to the Community Helm chart
menuTitle: Upgrade to Community Helm chart
description: Upgrade from the Loki repository Helm chart (6.x) to the Grafana Community Helm chart (13.x).
weight: 900
keywords:
  - upgrade
  - community
  - helm
---

# Upgrade from the Loki Helm chart to the Community Helm chart

The Loki Helm chart has moved from the [Loki repository](https://github.com/grafana/loki) to the [Grafana Community Helm Charts repository](https://github.com/grafana-community/helm-charts). Chart version 6.55.0 (appVersion 3.6.7) was the last release from the Loki repository. Chart version 13.1.2 (appVersion 3.7.1) is the current release from the community repository at the time this topic was published.

This guide walks you through upgrading from 6.55.0 to 13.x, which spans seven major chart versions (7 through 13), each with breaking changes.

{{< admonition type="caution" >}}

> This upgrade spans seven major versions with accumulated breaking changes. Test the upgrade in a non-production environment before applying it to production.

Reviewer: These two sentences repeat that the upgrade spans 7 major chart versions. Consider combining these into one admonition. 

You might be able to combine the GEL admonition into this one as well, so there's only one block. I can also see leaving them as two admonitions since they are separate.

Author: I want to keep them as two separate admonitions

{{< /admonition >}}

{{< admonition type="warning" >}}

> Grafana Enterprise Logs (GEL) support was removed from the community chart in version 8.0.0. If you are a GEL user, **do not migrate** to the community chart. The upstream `grafana/loki` chart remains available for GEL users.

Reviewer: Consider adding a link to the GEL chart.

{{< /admonition >}}

## Prerequisites

Before you begin:

- **Kubernetes 1.25 or later** is required (enforced since chart version 7.0.0).
- **Helm 3.x** is required.

> - Back up your current Helm release values:

Reviewer: We normally only bold UI elements. I checked the other Loki Helm chart docs (Install > Install using Helm) and didn't see either this or numbered headings in your other docs. Is this possibly a left-over from AI? I have to correct this kind of thing a lot when I use AI.

Author: Yep, that was AI.  Fixed globally.

  ```bash
  helm get values <RELEASE_NAME> -o yaml > backup-values.yaml
  ```

- Back up any persistent volumes and object store indexes.

> ## Step 1: Update your Helm repository

Reviewer: Wondering why you chose to leave Steps: in the headings? I didn't see any of the other Helm chart docs in Loki using Step:.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Update your Helm repository
```

Author: Pulled "step" out of all headings.

> The chart is now published to a different Helm repository and OCI registry.

Reviewer: This is the first time we're referencing an OCI registry. Do we need to explain what this is or is this assumed knowledge for Helm chart users? I had to look it up. When would someone want to use the OCI command vs the repositories? (Or maybe that doesn't matter?)

Author: Added a couple of sentences to explain OCI.

> **Before** (6.x from the Loki repository):

Reviewer: Lines 44-58: There are two stylistic concerns here: parenthetical statements and the use of bolded "Before." What about highlighting the points to change instead of using both commands? If someone isn't reading clearly, they might be likely to potentially copy the old command. 

What about using a small table that has two columns and lists the diffeferences? For example: 

|  | Old location | New location |
|---|---|---|
| Helm chart repository  | https://grafana.github.io/helm-charts | https://grafana-community.github.io/helm-charts |
| Upgrade command | grafana/loki | grafana-community/loki |

And then only provide the updated examples. 

Are there equivalent examples for the OCI registries?

helm upgrade <RELEASE_NAME> grafana/loki -f values.yaml
```

**After** (13.x from the community repository):

```bash
helm repo add grafana-community https://grafana-community.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update
helm upgrade <RELEASE_NAME> grafana-community/loki -f values.yaml --version 13.1.2
```

Or using OCI:

```bash
helm upgrade <RELEASE_NAME> oci://ghcr.io/grafana-community/helm-charts/loki -f values.yaml --version 13.1.2
```

## Step 2: Update your values file for breaking changes

The following sections describe every breaking change between chart versions 6.55.0 and 13.x, grouped by the major version that introduced each change. Review each section and update your values file accordingly.

{{< admonition type="caution" >}}
Check the Loki Helm Chart [README](https://github.com/grafana-community/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/loki#upgrading) for the latest changes and upgrade information.  The Grafana Community is constantly improving the charts.
{{< /admonition >}}

### 6.x to 7.0: Kubernetes API cleanup

Support for deprecated Kubernetes APIs and PodSecurityPolicy has been removed. Kubernetes 1.25 or later is now required.

> **Remove** the following from your values file:

Reviewer: Why the choice to bold "Remove" in the sentence? In other Helm chart docs, you've bolded key words (for example, [Helm chart components deployed](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/setup/install/helm/install-microservices/) and that makes sense. In this case, "Remove" is only part of the normal step for cleaning up the K8s API. This makes me wonder if this is also a possible left over from AI (again, something I have to clean up all the time).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remove the following from your values file:
```

```yaml
rbac:
  pspEnabled: false        # remove this key
  pspAnnotations: {}       # remove this key
```

The `rbac` section in 13.x only contains:

```yaml
rbac:
  sccEnabled: false
  sccAllowHostDirVolumePlugin: false
  namespaced: false
```

> If you have custom Ingress resources using `networking.k8s.io/v1beta1`, update them to `networking.k8s.io/v1`. If you reference PodDisruptionBudget resources with `policy/v1beta1`, update them to `policy/v1`.

Reviewer: Consider making this information into a table. One column says "Change this", second column says "To this" and then list the networking and pPidDistruptionBudget items. In cases like this, a table would make things much easier to scan.

### 7.x to 8.0: Enterprise support removed

> The entire `enterprise` configuration section has been removed from the chart. If your values file includes any `enterprise.*` keys, remove them:

Reviewer: Instead of having the "Remove this entire section"  in the example (which won't match anyone's file), rework your opening sentence in this paragraph. Consider something like this

```suggestion
Enterprise support is removed in the community Helm chart. 

Remove the entire `enterprise` configuration section from your chart, including any `enterprise.*` keys: 
```

```yaml

> # Remove this entire section

Reviewer: In this case, the remove line is part of the comment in the file while in other sections it's a phrase before the example. Consider removing this line since it's repeating what's stated in the previous sentences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

enterprise:
  enabled: false
  version: 3.6.5
  cluster_name: null
  license:
    contents: "NOTAVALIDLICENSE"
  useExternalLicense: false
  externalLicenseName: null
  externalConfigName: ""
  gelGateway: true
  # ... all other enterprise.* keys
```

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
The Helm Chart in the Loki repository is being maintained for GEL customers only.

> {{< /admonition >}}

Reviewer: What about moving this to be directly underneath the heading for this section?  A GEL reader scanning this doc might. miss it buried at the bottom.

Author: There's already a caution at the beginning of the topic for GEL users.

> ### 8.x to 9.0: Self-monitoring and Grafana Agent Operator removed

Reviewer: Some of these sections make me dig to see what has actually been changed. As a user, I'd rather have a list of changes in one place at the top of a section. For example: 

These sections are changed from monitoring section:
* self.Monitoring removed
* grafana-agent-operator removed
* servicemonitor.metricsInstance removed
* selfMonitoring.tenant moved to loki.canary

This lets users quickly scan to see if anything in their file matches--and move on if it doesn't impact them. Otherwise, they are going to read through everything. 

List the examples in the same order as the bullets. You could also do  the bullets in a table as suggested in other sections.

Reviewer: Scanning through the rest of the doc, it looks like this same pattern is repeated in other sections: bolded before and after sections with parenthetical versions, example of before config and after config. 

Do you think having a list or table in each section would help readers quickly scan and see what's changed?  Or if you have a regular way that you do things in other upgrade docs. I use the tables and bulleted lists in the [upgrade docs](https://grafana.com/docs/tempo/latest/set-up-for-tracing/setup-tempo/upgrade/#updated-removed-or-renamed-configuration-parameters) as an example.

The `monitoring.selfMonitoring` section and the `grafana-agent-operator` subchart dependency have been removed.

> **Remove** the following from your values file:

Reviewer: Again, the bold seems out of place and not part of our style. Also, same issue here with "remove this entire section" in the example repeating content that's stated in the preceding sentence. 
```suggestion
Remove the `monitoring.selfMonitoring` section from your values file:
```

```yaml

> # Remove this entire section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

monitoring:
  selfMonitoring:
    enabled: false
    tenant:
      name: "self-monitoring"
      password: null
      secretNamespace: '{{ include "loki.namespace" . }}'
    grafanaAgent:
      installOperator: false
      annotations: {}
      labels: {}
      enableConfigReadAPI: false
      priorityClassName: null
      resources: {}
      tolerations: []
    podLogs:
      apiVersion: monitoring.grafana.com/v1alpha1
      # ...
    logsInstance:
      # ...
```

Also remove `monitoring.serviceMonitor.metricsInstance` if present. It referenced a Grafana Agent CRD that no longer exists.

Loki canary tenant authentication has moved from `monitoring.selfMonitoring.tenant` to the top-level `lokiCanary.tenant` section. If you were using canary tenant auth, update as follows:

> **Before** (6.x):

Reviewer: Same comment here about using the bolded words. These effectively function as headings. My suggestion is to change these to introductory phrases to the examples (as suggested in other sections). Even a two-column table with "before" and "after" columns could work, since these are small config examples.

```yaml
monitoring:
  selfMonitoring:
    tenant:
      name: "self-monitoring"
      password: "my-password"
```

**After** (13.x):

```yaml
lokiCanary:
  tenant:
    name: "self-monitoring"
    password: "my-password"
```

{{< admonition type="tip" >}}
[Grafana Alloy](https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/) is the successor to Grafana Agent. If you relied on Agent-based self-monitoring, consider using Alloy for log collection.
{{< /admonition >}}

### 9.x to 10.0: Index gateway persistence restructured

The `indexGateway.persistence.inMemory` field has been replaced with `indexGateway.persistence.dataVolumeParameters` for more consistent configuration across components.

> **Before** (6.x):

Reviewer: Same pattern here with bolded before and after with parentheticals. See other suggestions. I didn't see this kind of formatting in other Loki docs, which makes me wonder if this is a left-over from AI.

```yaml
indexGateway:
  persistence:
    enabled: false
    inMemory: false
    size: 10Gi
```

**After** (13.x):

```yaml
indexGateway:
  persistence:
    enabled: false
    dataVolumeParameters:
      emptyDir: {}
    size: 10Gi
```

If you were using in-memory storage (`inMemory: true`), the equivalent configuration is:

```yaml
indexGateway:
  persistence:
    dataVolumeParameters:
      emptyDir:
        medium: Memory
        sizeLimit: 10Gi
```

### 10.x to 11.0: Legacy read target removed

The `read.legacyReadTarget` option has been removed. Simple scalable deployments now always require a dedicated backend target (read, write, and backend).

> **Remove** from your values file if present:

Reviewer: Again, bolded  "Remove" when it's not necessary. This is consistently throughout the doc, but it doesn't match our style guide.

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
If you are migrating directly from 6.55.0 and have never used the `ephemeralDataVolume` configuration introduced in the community chart, this change does not require action on your existing values. However, be aware of the new `persistence.type` field when configuring persistence for components like the compactor or bloom-builder.
{{< /admonition >}}

If you adopted the `ephemeralDataVolume` pattern from any intermediate community chart version, update your values as follows:

**Before** (12.x):

```yaml
<component>:
  persistence:
    ephemeralDataVolume:
      enabled: true
      accessModes:
        - ReadWriteOnce
      size: 10Gi
      storageClass: null
```

**After** (13.x):

```yaml
<component>:
  persistence:
    enabled: true
    type: ephemeral
    accessModes:
      - ReadWriteOnce
    size: 10Gi
    storageClass: null
```

The `type` field accepts `pvc` (default for most components) or `ephemeral`. Fields that were nested under `ephemeralDataVolume` (`accessModes`, `size`, `storageClass`, `volumeAttributesClassName`, `selector`, `annotations`, `labels`) now sit directly under `persistence`.

> ## Step 3: Review additional deprecations

Reviewer: Same issue as before. We don't use "Step" in headings. 
```suggestion
## Review additional deprecations
```

Several per-component fields have been deprecated in favor of unified blocks. These still work but will be removed in a future release. Consider updating them now:

```yaml

> # Deprecated per-component service fields (applies to indexGateway, compactor, and others)

Reviewer: Like other sections, I'm not sure why this is in the comments for the examples?

Author: Moved to a table.

indexGateway:
  serviceLabels: {}        # deprecated, use indexGateway.service.labels
  serviceAnnotations: {}   # deprecated, use indexGateway.service.annotations
  serviceType: "ClusterIP" # deprecated, use indexGateway.service.type
  appProtocol:             # deprecated, use indexGateway.service.appProtocol
    grpc: ""
  maxUnavailable: null     # deprecated, use podDisruptionBudget.maxUnavailable
```

The global image registry override has also been renamed:

```yaml
# Deprecated
global:
  image:
    registry: null

# Use instead
global:
  imageRegistry: null
```

> ## Step 4: Perform the upgrade

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Perform the upgrade
```

After updating your values file, run the upgrade:

```bash
helm upgrade <RELEASE_NAME> grafana-community/loki \
  -f your-updated-values.yaml \
  --version 13.1.2
```

Or using OCI:

```bash
helm upgrade <RELEASE_NAME> oci://ghcr.io/grafana-community/helm-charts/loki \
  -f your-updated-values.yaml \
  --version 13.1.2
```

### Verify the upgrade

```bash
# Check all pods are running
kubectl get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/name=loki

# Verify Loki is accepting writes
kubectl logs -l app.kubernetes.io/component=write --tail=50

# Verify Loki canary is healthy (if enabled)
kubectl logs -l app.kubernetes.io/component=loki-canary --tail=20
```

> ## Step 5: Post-migration cleanup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Post-migration cleanup
```

After a successful upgrade:

- Remove the old Helm repository if no longer needed:

  ```bash
  helm repo remove grafana
  ```

- Update any CI/CD pipelines to reference `grafana-community/loki` or the OCI URL `oci://ghcr.io/grafana-community/helm-charts/loki`.
- Review monitoring dashboards for renamed metrics. Refer to the [Loki 3.x upgrade notes](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/<LOKI_VERSION>/setup/upgrade/#30) for metric namespace changes.

> ## Troubleshooting

Reviewer: Avoid gerunds in headings. 
```suggestion
## Troubleshoot
```

{{< admonition type="warning" >}}
Grafana Enterprise Logs (GEL) support was removed from the community chart in version 8.0.0. If you are a GEL user, **do not migrate** to the community chart. The `grafana/loki` chart remains available for GEL users.
{{< /admonition >}}

{{< admonition type="caution" >}}
This upgrade spans several major versions with accumulated breaking changes. Test the upgrade in a non-production environment before applying it to production.
{{< /admonition >}}

## Prerequisites

Before you begin:

- Kubernetes 1.25 or later is required (enforced since chart version 7.0.0).
- Helm 3.x is required.
- Back up your current Helm release values:

  ```bash
  helm get values <RELEASE_NAME> -o yaml > backup-values.yaml
  ```

- Back up any persistent volumes and object store indexes.

## Update your Helm repository

The chart is now published to a different Helm repository and Open Container Initiative (OCI) registry.  The official Helm documentation now recommends using OCI registries as they implement unified storage, distribution, and improved security.

> Old Location - 6.x from the Loki repository:

Reviewer: The dash didn't seem correct in this spot. maybe an em-dash for easier to just "for" insteasd. Also fixing capitalization on "location". 
```suggestion
Old location for 6.x from the Loki repository:
```

```bash
helm repo add grafana https://grafana.github.io/helm-charts
helm upgrade <RELEASE_NAME> grafana/loki -f values.yaml
```

> New Location - 7.x and later from the community repository:

Reviewer: Same as previous comment. 
```suggestion
New location for 7.x and later from the community repository:
```

```bash
helm repo add grafana-community https://grafana-community.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update
helm upgrade <RELEASE_NAME> grafana-community/loki -f values.yaml --version 13.1.2
```

> Or using OCI for 7.x and later:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or if you are using OCI for 7.x and later:
```

```bash
helm upgrade <RELEASE_NAME> oci://ghcr.io/grafana-community/helm-charts/loki -f values.yaml --version 13.1.2
```

## Update your values file for breaking changes

> The following sections describe every breaking change between chart versions 6.55.0 and 13.x, grouped by the major version that introduced each change. Review each section and update your values file accordingly.

Reviewer: Nice introduction.

{{< admonition type="caution" >}}

> Check the Loki Helm Chart [README](https://github.com/grafana-community/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/loki#upgrading) for the latest changes and upgrade information.  The Grafana Community is constantly improving the charts.

Reviewer: Two spaces :) 
```suggestion
Check the Loki Helm Chart [README](https://github.com/grafana-community/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/loki#upgrading) for the latest changes and upgrade information. The Grafana Community is constantly improving the charts.
```

Remove the entire `enterprise` configuration section from your chart, including any `enterprise.*` keys:

```yaml
enterprise:
  enabled: false
  version: 3.6.5
  cluster_name: null
  license:
    contents: "NOTAVALIDLICENSE"
  useExternalLicense: false
  externalLicenseName: null
  externalConfigName: ""
  gelGateway: true
```

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
The Helm Chart in the Loki repository is being maintained for GEL customers only.
{{< /admonition >}}

### 8.x to 9.0: Self-monitoring and Grafana Agent Operator removed

The `monitoring.selfMonitoring` section and the `grafana-agent-operator` subchart dependency have been removed.

Remove the `monitoring.selfMonitoring` section from your values file:

```yaml
monitoring:
  selfMonitoring:
    enabled: false
    tenant:
      name: "self-monitoring"
      password: null
      secretNamespace: '{{ include "loki.namespace" . }}'
    grafanaAgent:
      installOperator: false
      annotations: {}
      labels: {}
      enableConfigReadAPI: false
      priorityClassName: null
      resources: {}
      tolerations: []
    podLogs:
      apiVersion: monitoring.grafana.com/v1alpha1
      # ...
    logsInstance:
      # ...
```

> Also remove `monitoring.serviceMonitor.metricsInstance` if present. It referenced a Grafana Agent CRD that no longer exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also remove `monitoring.serviceMonitor.metricsInstance`, if present. It referenced a Grafana Agent CRD that no longer exists.
```

The default `deploymentMode` has changed from `SimpleScalable` to `Monolithic`, and `SingleBinary` has been renamed to `Monolithic`.

Before (6.x default):

```yaml
deploymentMode: SimpleScalable
```

After (13.x default):

```yaml
deploymentMode: Monolithic
```

Action required based on your current mode:

If you are running `SimpleScalable` (the 6.x default), explicitly set it in your values file to preserve your current deployment:

```yaml
deploymentMode: SimpleScalable
```

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
`SimpleScalable` is deprecated and will be removed in Loki 4.0. Plan to migrate to `Monolithic` or `Distributed`.
{{< /admonition >}}

If you are running `SingleBinary`, update the value to the new name:

```yaml
# Before
deploymentMode: SingleBinary

# After
deploymentMode: Monolithic
```

If you are running `Distributed`, no change is needed.

### 12.x to 13.0: Ephemeral volume persistence flattened

The persistence configuration for ephemeral volumes has been flattened across all components. The nested `persistence.ephemeralDataVolume` structure has been replaced with a `persistence.type` field.

{{< admonition type="note" >}}

> If you are migrating directly from 6.55.0 and have never used the `ephemeralDataVolume` configuration introduced in the community chart, this change does not require action on your existing values. However, be aware of the new `persistence.type` field when configuring persistence for components like the compactor or bloom-builder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are migrating directly from 6.55.0 and have never used the `ephemeralDataVolume` configuration introduced in the community chart, this change doesn't require action on your existing values. However, be aware of the new `persistence.type` field when configuring persistence for components like the compactor or bloom-builder.
```
